# cascading-simhash

Say you have a large corpus of web documents and you want to group
them together by some notion of "similarity". For instance, we may
want to detect plagiarism or find content that appears on multiple
places on a site. In this scenario it is impractical to do a pairwise
comparison of all documents. Fortunately, we can use simhashing.

Broadly speaking, simhashing is a algorithm that calculates a "group
id" (the minimum hash, or <em>minhash</em>) from the content. Because
the minhash for an item is calculated independently of the other items
in the set, minhashing is an ideal candidate for MapReduce.


* See: http://www.xcombinator.com/2011/05/09/cascading-simhash-a-library-to-cluster-by-minhashes-in-hadoop/ for an introduction to this library.
* See: http://knol.google.com/k/simple-simhashing for more on simhashing.

## Dependencies 

leiningen

    [cascading-simhash "1.0.0-SNAPSHOT"]

maven

    <dependency>
      <groupId>cascading-simhash</groupId>
      <artifactId>cascading-simhash</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
    </dependency>

## Running the Java Example

Take a look at `src/java/simhash/examples/SimpleSimhash.java` for an
example of how to use this package from java.

    lein uberjar
    lein classpath > classpath
    java -cp `cat classpath`:build/cascading-simhash-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar simhash.examples.SimpleSimhash "test-resources/test-documents.txt"

## Running the Clojure Example

See: `src/clj/simhash/examples/bigrams.clj`

  lein compile
  lein run -m simhash.examples.bigrams test-resources/test-documents.txt 

## Author

Nate Murray 2011

## License

    Copyright 2010 Nate Murray
 
    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
 
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
 
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

